Kerberos
===========

Parts of kerberos authentication system
---------------------------------------

1. kerberos Client
2. kerberos KDC
3. kerberized service (which contain resource)
let "u" be user's secret encryption key and "s" be service secret encryption key which is stored in KDC

kerberos client==>u

kerberized servise==>s

In kerberos authentication system each principal trust that the packet encrypted with this key must come from the kdc, let "k" which is private key and shared to no one.
Suppose a user log on the system with password then a packet will be sent to KDC which will contain only username. 
Then KDC looks into user's principal database for the username that packet contains. 
Then KDC creates ticket granting ticket(TGT) which is timestamped upto a certain time which contains username, IP address of user's system, the KDCname and new key called session key. 
This TGT is encrypted by a KDC's private key. Then KDC sends back packet containing 2 things one is TGT and copy of session key which is encrypted by user's private key.
The client's used user's password to decrypt packet to open packet.
Then client creates the authenticator but still client didn't read or open TGT.
The authenticator consitis of ipaddress, name and time and sent the packet to KDC whichm contains TGT and name of the requested service which it received from KDC. (note:= TGT is still unopened.)
Then KDC decrypt the TGT and check the information is same or not as it is not opened. 
Then it uses the TGT to check the information in the authenticator.
Now the user has been verified by the KDC and KDC can trust its identity.
Then KDC sends a service ticket to client which is  particular to the requested service and only worked for this user for a specific period of time.
The service ticket includes username, requested service, ipaddress and  new session key.Then kdc encrypts this ticket with users private key. 
Then it sends a packet to the client  which consists service ticket and copy of a new session key which is encrypted by the first session key shared with the user. 
The client decrypt the packet which and uses the new session key to encrypt the packet which contains new authenticator and service ticket encrypted by new session key. 
The service uses its private key to open the service ticket which gauranteed that it comes from KDC and no one else has that key and uses new session key to open the authenticator. 
Then it verified the information in the service with authenticator, now the service has authenticated the user then service sends back the acknowledgement and user is authenticated to the service.



for visuals:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KD2Q-2ToloE   
